Hi I'm Joelle Ataya, I'm Kayla Gallagher and I'm Mike Carroll and together we 

worked with the Document Assembly Line Project to create three automated 

interviews that complete client release forms. 

We were inspired to work on this project because of the clear accessibility 

divide between client and practioner in the legal world. These forms in their 

original state were both hard to locate and difficult to access, especially for 

those who are unfamiliar or identify as less than tech savvy.

While there are still other options to complete these forms, we believe that 

our solution is the most straight forward and contained into one application. 

The Users and Stakeholders involved are most importantly the clients, but 

include attorneys and organizations such as, Mass Legal Services and the Boston

Housing Authority. Our product is designed to fit all users from the 

20-something tech genius, to the middle-aged lawyer, and the 60 year old client.

We consulted with the Boston Housing Authority to discuss the common questions 

that someone who would be filling out an application such as this one may run 

into. We also discussed and researched the common aspects of a release form 

with several subject matter experts in order to author the General Release 

Form. 

Upon our research, we discussed that there were several other ways that this 

could be completed whether it is in the original format of printing, signing 

and returning, simply not filling out the form and providing no access to 

private information or for firms to use a fillable pdf and e-sign platform, 

however, we realized that there is both demand and advantage to having the 

entire from, signature included completed in one application. 

Working in a group has great advantages that are especially clear when 

user-testing, there are so many pieces of information that can be made better 

with different perspective and fresh eyes. We consistently participated in 

interactive user-testing in weekly video meetings, and provided both written 

and verbal feedback to one another. We created unique personas to test with 

that cover different use-cases, and utilized the people in our surroundings (

parents, roommates, dogs, etc.) to test the product as well. In addition to 

user-testing, also took into account the feedback we received from classmates,

coding experts, legal experts, and the feedback of our external partner when we 

demo-ed our products for them. 

Our initial proposal called for two interviews from two separate forms. At the 

request of our external partner, we created a general release form and 

complimentary interview for the purpose of this project. Though we began with 

two interviews and forms, our final project yields three interviews that 

complete three different release forms. 

Our interviews rely on document automation through docassemble to create a 

process for the user from start to finish. The product is incredibly client 

facing, its impact and efficiencies are entirely based on the ambition and 

intention of the practioner. For example, an attorney could utilize this form 

similarly, to the way they currently implement them -- one at a time. 

Alternatively, a practioner could decide that they would like every client to 

include a copy of this form in their client file, if this was the case, 

theoretically they could contact their entire client base to complete the 

interview without disrupting their workday it could reach 10, 40, or 200 

clients depending on their firm/agency capacity. 

Our product isn't perfect, but it does work! Most of the bugs that we are 

currently working through have anywhere from a minute to a few hours’ time to 

work through. They may need fresh eyes, or expert help, but they don't take 

away from the fact that we have created a solid minimum viable product that 

only needs a few tweaks and possibly a design touch before being tested for 

real world use!

All of our current user concerns can be found through documentation in our 

biographies with each of our pages reflecting the project we took point on! We 

discussed certain edge cases and users that may not be addressed through the 

implementation of our product such as the person with no Wi-Fi or no computer, 

that could be worked around through free-WIFI or access to computers in a 

public library or other public facility. We also discussed the user that 

doesn't speak English, and translation to other languages such as Spanish is a 

feature that we hope to implement in the future. 

The longevity of our product including continued operation, updates and 

maintenance will rely on the volunteers of the document assembly line project. 

They currently own all of our repositories henceforth. Whether we are the 

volunteers to continue this work or others take it over to continue to iterate,

update and improve on our interviews. We hope that this product helps 

practioners and clients alike across Massachusetts during this pandemic and 

beyond. Thank you!
